Overhaul README.md (#1052)
opensafely-core/job-runner: DEVELOPERS.md

[cli]: https://github.com/opensafely-core/opensafely-cli
[cli-ticket]: https://github.com/opensafely-core/opensafely-cli/issues/330

### Job structure

The job server serves jobs as JSON in the following format. First, a job must
belong to a workspace:

```json
{
    "workspace": {
        "name": "my workspace",
        "repo": "https://github.com/opensafely/job-integration-tests",
        "branch": "main",
        "db": "default"
    }
}
```
Valid values for `"db"` can be found in [VALID_DATABASE_NAMES][common-config],
and are currently "default", and "include_t1oo".

[common-config]: https://github.com/opensafely-core/job-runner/blob/main/jobrunner/config/common.py

### Consuming jobs

A job runner's RAP Agent is a service installed on a machine that has access to a given
backend. It retrieves tasks from the RAP Controller and consumes those whose `backend` value matches the
value of the current `BACKEND` environment variable.

It must also define three environment variables which are an RFC1838 connection
URL; these correspond to the `db` requested in the job's workspace definition,
and as such are named `DEFAULT_DATABASE_URL`, and `INCLUDE_T1OO_DATABASE_URL`.

> TODO: FIX THE NEXT SECTION

Author: TODO

Author: done (may be more to do)

suite (some tests in `tests/lib/test_git.py` are skipped if this environment variable
is missing).

## Operating principles

The project retrieves jobs to be run from an [OpenSAFELY job
server](https://github.com/opensafely-core/job-server) by polling the job server.

Jobs belong to a `workspace`. This describes the git repo containing the
OpenSAFELY-compliant project under execution; the git branch, and kind of

> database to use. The workspace also acts as a kind of namespace for

Reviewer: Is "kind of database to use" still accurate?  I suppose there is still default vs t1oo?

Author: yeah, there is still default vs t1oo, I'm going to switch out "kind of" for "which" though

partitioning outputs of its jobs.

An OpenSAFELY-compliant repo must provide a `project.yaml` file which
describes how a requested job should be converted into a command (& arguments)
that can be run in a subprocess on the secure server.  It incorporates the idea
of dependencies, so an action that generates a chart might depend on an action
that extracts data from the database *for* that chart.  See the
[Actions reference](https://docs.opensafely.org/actions-intro/) for more information.

An action can define `outputs`; these are persisted on disk and made available
to subsequent actions in the workspace, and users who have permission to log
into the server and view the raw files.

The runner takes care of executing dependencies in order. By default, it skips
re-running a dependency whose previous run produced output that still exists in
the production environment.  The runner also reports status back to the job
server, redacting possibly-sensitive information.

The runner is bundled as part of the [opensafely-cli][cli] tool so users

> can test their actions locally.

Reviewer: Should we document that the version in opensafely-cli is pinned to a pre-RAP world?

Author: yep done

[cli]: https://github.com/opensafely-core/opensafely-cli

### Job structure

The job server serves jobs as JSON in the following format. First, a job must
belong to a workspace:

```json
{
    "workspace": {
        "name": "my workspace",
        "repo": "https://github.com/opensafely/job-integration-tests",
        "branch": "main",
        "db": "full"
    }
}
```

> Possible values for `"db"` are "full", "slice", and "dummy".

Reviewer: This is definitely not accurate any more; from config, valid database names are "default" and "include_t1oo" (but "include_t1oo"  only applies to TPP, atm at least)

Author: fixed, maybe this is also called `database_name` now, I'm just checking

Author: renamed, and some wider follow-up changes too

A workspace is a way of associating jobs related to a given combination of
branch, repository and database. To enqueue a job, a client POSTs JSON like
this:

```json
{
    "backend": "tpp",
    "action_id": "do_thing",
    "workspace_id": 1
}
```

### Consuming jobs

A job runner's RAP Agent is a service installed on a machine that has access to a given

> backend. It receives jobs from the RAP Controller and consumes those whose `backend` value matches the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
backend. It retrieves tasks from the RAP Controller and consumes those whose `backend` value matches the
```

storage location.  The project author must categorise these outputs as either
`highly_sensitive` or `moderately_sensitive`.  Any pseudonymised data which may
be highly disclosive (e.g. without low number redaction) should be classed as
`highly_sensitive`; data which the author believes could be released following
review should be classed as `moderately_sensitive`. This design allows tiered
levels of permissions for collaborators to review data outputs. For example, the
study author would usually have access to `highly_sensitive` material for
debugging; but other collaborators could have access to `moderately_sensitive`
data to prepare it for release (for which it is planned to add a
`minimally_sensitive` category).

Outputs are therefore persisted to filesystem paths according to the following
environment variables:

```sh
# A location where cohort CSVs (one row per patient) should be
# stored. This folder must exist.
HIGH_PRIVACY_STORAGE_BASE=/home/opensafely/high_security

# A location where script outputs (some for publication) should be
# stored
MEDIUM_PRIVACY_STORAGE_BASE=/tmp/outputs/medium_security
```

> ### Project.yaml

Author: done

  * Individual `actions` are extracted from this file
  * A dependency graph is calculated for the requested action; for example, an
    action might depend on three previous actions before it can be run
  * Each action in the graph is checked to see if it needs to be run. Actions do
    not need to be run if:
    * they already have output generated from a previous run;
    * they are currently running;

>     * they failed for a "fatal" reason on their last run

Author: nope!
